Feature radio comm (#51)
HEATRobotics/EMBR-Bot: Documentation/2025/rpi-radio-comm-setup.md

2. **Verify in Ubuntu:**
Open your **WSL Ubuntu-22.04** terminal and run:
```bash
lsusb

```

You should see the Silicon Labs / RFD900X device listed there.

---

### 4. Locate the Port in WSL

In Linux, USB-to-Serial devices are mapped to `/dev/tty`. Usually, the first one plugged in is:
` /dev/ttyUSB0`

**Check permissions:**
By default, your user might not have permission to read/write to the serial port. Run this in WSL to grant access:

```bash
sudo chmod 666 /dev/ttyUSB0

```

---

### Common Gotchas

* **WSL Kernel:** If `lsusb` shows the device but your Python script says `/dev/ttyUSB0` doesn't exist, you might be on a very old WSL kernel. Update it by running `wsl --update` in PowerShell.
* **Automatic Detach:** If you unplug the RFD900X and plug it back in, you must run the `usbipd attach` command again.
* **Docker:** If you are running your code inside a **Docker container** within WSL, remember to start your container with the `--privileged` flag or by mapping the device specifically:
`docker run -it --privileged -v /dev/ttyUSB0:/dev/ttyUSB0 my-mavlink-image`

> # UART and pin mapping for rpi 3 model B

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# UART and pin mapping for Raspberry Pi 4B
```

Since you are on a **Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+**, the hardware peripheral `uart2` does not exist. The Pi 3 series only has two UARTs: **UART0** (high performance) and **UART1** (mini-UART). On this model, Pins 27 and 28 (GPIO 0/1) are strictly reserved for the System I2C/ID EEPROM and cannot be used for MAVLink communication.

To get this working, you must shift to the standard UART pins.

### Step 1: Hardware Move (Mandatory)

You must move your RFD900X wires to the only pins on the Pi 3B+ capable of serial communication:

* **RFD Pin 7 (RX)** → **Pi Pin 8 (GPIO 14 / TX)**
* **RFD Pin 9 (TX)** → **Pi Pin 10 (GPIO 15 / RX)**
* **RFD Pin 1 (GND)** → **Pi Pin 6 (GND)**
* **RFD Pin 4 (5V)** → **Pi Pin 4 (5V)**

---

### Step 2: Clean up `config.txt`

We need to remove the "UART2" configuration and disable Bluetooth so the high-quality UART (UART0) is available on the pins you just connected.

1. Open the file: `sudo nano /boot/firmware/config.txt`
2. **Remove** these lines (since they don't work on Pi 3):

> * `dtoverlay=uart2`

Reviewer: Documentation needs update for Raspberry Pi 4B
